% introduction - describe the motivation and how previously published
%% on the topic integrates with the current work

\chapter{Introduction} \label{ch:introduction}

From \cite{chang2017}, it is useful to develop a neonatal test for high risk of
Autism Spectrum Disorder. There is some evidence as in \cite{chang2016whole}
that there is some correlation between risk and placental health. Most ASD
cases are not diagnosed until the child reaches three or four, so the benefit
of any neonatal testing would be very beneficial, as the brain may be more
receptive to treatment at a young age. In particular, it was shown in
\cite{chang2016whole} that measurements of the placental chorionic surface
vascular network (PCSVN) may be useful in identifying such risk.
\cite{chang2017} has provided a method of automatically calculating such
features from an extracted vascular network, but does so with manual tracing of
the PCSVN in order to make these measurements.  These manual tracings are
labor-intensive, requiring 4 to 8 hours of labor for each trace. There has been
work to automate this procedure \cite{almoussa-ucla-reu} \cite{huynh2013filter}
\cite{djima2017enhancing}. Automating this procedure would not only allow more
data acquisition to study the potential effects of placental health on later
conditions, but may ideally serve as a real-time diagnostic for neonatal risk
factors as well. We continue the work of developing a procedure to automate
extraction of the PCSVN.


Our basic goal of "vascular network extraction" is a frequent one in image
processing. There are have been many techniques adapted to extracting vascular
networks. The placenta in particular presents a greater degree of difficulty
due to the nature of the vascular network. It's a surface network, and the
"background" has a great degree of topology itself, causing many na\"{i}ve
approaches that work with other image domains to fail completely.


Much work has been to develop reliable vascular extraction methods for
well-known image domains (such as retinal MRA images) using Hessian-based
filters, namely the (multiscale) Frangi filter. It is desirable to extend these
technique to study placental images, but this approach is greatly hindered by
the comparative irregularity of the placental surface as a whole, which
introduces significant noise into the image domain.  Prior work
\cite{huynh2013filter} solved this problem by provided an additional local
curvilinear filter to the Frangi result in an effort to remove some noise from
the final extraction.

Here we provide an in depth mathematical background of the Frangi filter and
its justification as an image-processing technique, as well as an introduction
to the Gaussian scale space theory common to many multiscale methods. Finally,
we discuss an important advancement in implementation--scale space conversion
for differentiation (i.e. gaussian blur) via Fast Fourier Transform, which
offers a significant speedup. This allows us faster calculation of the
eigenvalues of the Hessian, from which we calculate the Frangi filter, a
vesselness measure.

We demonstrate the effectiveness of our sped-up implementation of the Frangi
filter by performing a large ($N=20$) multiscale Frangi filter on a set of 201
placental images from a private database provided by the National Children's
Study (NCS). We then demonstrate several approaches to merging the multiscale
result into an approximation of the PCSVN and compare these to manual tracings
of the network. Our ability to take many more scales into consideration allows
us to be pickier about our thresholding, as well as our choice of parameters,
which significantly reduces noise
experienced in previous efforts. We finally suggest several ways to improve
upon our approximation, namely by using the Frangi result as a prefilter for
more robust techniques.